# Note: DO NOT submit PRs against the semgrep-interfaces repo

The semgrep-interfaces repo is synced from the main semgrep repo, so
please do not submit PRs against this repo.

- If you are an OSS contributor, please submit PRs against the
  `cli/src/semgrep/semgrep_interfaces` directory of the semgrep repo.
- If you are internal to semgrep, please submit PRs against the
  `OSS/cli/src/semgrep/semgrep_interfaces` directory of the
  semgrep-proprietary repo.

# semgrep-interfaces

This repository contains IDL (Interface Definition Language) files specifying
the interface between different Semgrep components (e.g., between
the semgrep CLI and the playground). It also includes the schema for Semgrep rules,
as both Semgrep and Semgrep App rely on this.

This repository is meant to be used as a submodule.

You may need to install opam and mypy as pre-requisites for contributing to this repository.

To get setup in this repositoty:
1. install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)
2. Run `make dev-setup`

To update an interface:
1. Make changes to the appropriate .atd file or edit `generate.py`
2. Run `make`. This will propagate that change to the respective .py, .ts, .ml, etc.
3. Run `make test`. This will check backwards compatibility, validate schemas, and typecheck python files
4. Also double-check manually that the changes to the interface are
   still backward compatible with old versions of the CLI. For
   example, the Semgrep backend needs to still be able to *consume*
   data generated by Semgrep 1.50.0. See
   https://atd.readthedocs.io/en/latest/atdgen-tutorial.html#smooth-protocol-upgrades
   Note that the types related to the semgrep-core JSON output or the
   semgrep-core RPC do not need to be backward compatible!

---

The code in this repository is licensed under the terms of the [LGPL
2.1 with OCaml-LGPL-linking-exception](LICENSE). For more information
about the licensing details of Semgrep itself see [our licensing
page][semgrep-licensing].

[semgrep-licensing]: https://semgrep.dev/docs/licensing/
